A Familial Archive Through Onions
Plant: Onion (Allium Cepa)


Onions originated from the regions that are now known as Central Asia and the Middle East. The plants were then brought to the Americas by European colonizers during the 16th century. According to the National Onion Association, Onions were cultivated because of their versatility and adaptability to many climates, as well as their medicinal properties. They are good for digestion, can help prevent thirst, can reduce inflammation, and cure headaches.


My family is from the Southern part of the United States-- specifically South Carolina, Georgia, and Kentucky. Many dishes use the flavor of onions to season the food. Some of my favorite dishes that put onions to use are: Chili, Chicken & Dumplings, Collard Greens, Jambalaya, and Salmon & Grits. The following recipes and stories incorporate Onions in various forms, whether its dried and used as seasoning or sautéed for flavor. 


This ‘archive’ of sorts focuses on three of my family members: my Cousin Napoleon, my Mom, and my Dad. Their relation to food and what they’ve passed on to my sister and I is discussed in each section through anecdotes and parts of the interviews I held with them.
Napoleon
Context
My cousin Napoleon’s side of the family and mine are related (bare with me here!) by way of his Paternal Grandfather and my Maternal Great-Grandfather. They were brothers, and 2 out of 13 children of my Maternal Great-Great Grandparents who were sharecroppers in Greenville, South Carolina. The generation Napoleon’s Parents were part of led the Great Migration and experienced the shift of the majority of available work being agricultural to industrial. 


Napoleon grew up on his Maternal Grandparent’s farm in Lexington, Kentucky during the 50s. They had Chickens, Dairy, and a variety of crops (Green Beans, Corn, Carrots, Peaches, Apples). He graciously allowed me to interview him and told me a story about how as a child, whenever he was hungry he’d go to his Grandmother and say, “Momma Margaret I’m hungry,” and she’d tell him “Boy go get you a peach.” All the food they needed was within reach and they were self-sustained from what they grew. 
Fried Chicken
This recipe is adapted from The Historical Cookbook of the American Negro by the National Council of Negro Women, Inc. and the Women’s Missionary Society of the African Methodist Episcopal Church


1 Young Chicken
1 ½ Cup of Flour
½ Cup of Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon Onion Powder
1 Tablespoon Garlic Powder
________________
1/2 Tablespoon Paprika
2 Teaspoons Salt
2 Teaspoons Pepper
Fat or Oil to fry with


Select a young plump chicken. Remove pin feathers, wash the chicken, cut into pieces suitable for serving, and wipe dry. Season chicken with salt and pepper. In a medium-sized bowl combine flour, onion powder, garlic powder, and paprika. Coat the pieces of chicken in the flour mixture and set aside. Heat a generous quantity of fat to just below the smoking point. Put the chicken in the pan and let fry to golden brown, reduce heat, and cook until tender. 
Greens
Recipe adapted from Monique of Divas Can Cook 


This recipe can be applied to any type of leafy green you want. Napoleon grew up on Turnip and Mustard Greens. Mustard Greens are a great source of Vitamins B and K, while Turnip Greens are full of minerals like Potassium, Magnesium, and Calcium. 


2 lbs of Greens
2 Ham Hocks
1 Large Onion
6 Cups of Chicken Broth
2.5 Cups of Water
½ Cup Distilled White Vinegar
2 Tablespoon Olive Oil
2 Tablespoons Minced Garlic
1 ⅓ Tablespoons Salt
1 ⅓ Tablespoons Pepper
1 Teaspoon Red Pepper Flakes


Ham Hock:
Preheat oven to 350°F. Pour 1 Tablespoon of Olive Oil into a cast iron skillet and warm up the pan on the stovetop to medium heat. Season Ham Hocks with 1 Teaspoon (⅓ Tablespoon) of Salt and 1 Teaspoon (⅓ Tablespoon) of Pepper. Place Ham Hocks in the cast iron skillet and sear to a golden brown skin on all sides. Once the outside is cooked, pour 2 Cups of Chicken Broth into the skillet with the hocks. Cover the pan with a lid and roast in the oven for 2-3 hours. Save pan drippings for the Greens.


Greens:
In a large pot, add 1 Tablespoon of Olive Oil and warm up to medium heat. Prepare a bowl to soak Greens with ½ Cup of Vinegar and 1 ½ Cup of Water (or scale with a 3:1 ratio). After soaking the Greens in the bowl: rinse, dry, and chop the Greens into bite-sized pieces then set aside. Roughly chop the onion and sautée until slightly tender. Add in the Minced Garlic and continue sautéeing until the onions are translucent. Pour 4 Cups of Chicken Broth into the pot and bring to a boil. Add in the Greens and Ham Hocks (and pan drippings) then reduce the heat to a lower temperature. Cover the pot with a lid and let it simmer for 1 hour or until the Greens are at your preferred tenderness. Stir frequently and add in 1 Tablespoon of Vinegar, 1 Tablespoon of Salt, 1 Tablespoon of Pepper, and 1 Teaspoon of Red Pepper Flakes when greens are done.


Mommy
Context
My Mom remembers growing up in her Grandparent’s house in Greenville, South Carolina during the 70s. My mom was raised in a progressive time for the Women’s Rights Movement which undoubtedly influenced her independent and driven disposition. This resilient (or hard-headed as I like to say when she can’t hear me) trait is something that was markedly different from her Grandmother’s generation. When I interviewed my Mom, she told me that her Grandmother was 16 years old when she married my Great-Grandfather– this being extremely common for that time. Another fact indicative of that time was that my Great-Grandmother never learned how to drive so as to not overstep her husband in terms of independence. In four generations, this has completely changed. 


My Mom’s Grandfather maintained a garden of vegetables including Corn, Tomatoes, and Okra. She found a love of cooking from them and taught herself how to bake. Every Sunday her family come together and have classic Southern cooking with dishes like Fried Chicken, Greens, Rice & Gravy, and Mac & Cheese. She confessed to me that she got really tired of eating it because of how frequently she had it growing up and as she grew older she cooked those dishes less and less. However when my sister and I were younger, she realized that she failed to pass the tradition on to us. One day we came to her confused about why people would want to eat Sweet Potato Pie instead of Pumpkin Pie she realized she had to make a change and start cooking soul food for us. From then on, we developed our own family recipes and traditions based on her upbringing, personal research from recipes online, and secondhand cookbooks. The dishes my sister and I couldn’t stop begging her to make were Chili and Chicken and Dumplings.
Chili
1 lb Ground Chuck
1 large Onion
1 Green Bell Pepper
1 16oz can Diced Tomatoes 
1 16oz can Tomato Sauce 
1 16oz can Red Kidney Beans
1 16oz can Black Beans
½ Cup Beef Broth
2 Tablespoons of Olive Oil
2 Tablespoon Cumin
2 Tablespoon Chili powder
2 Tablespoon Onion powder
1 Tablespoon Garlic powder
2 Teaspoons Salt
2 Teaspoons Pepper


Instructions:
Pour 1 Tablespoon of Olive Oil into a pan and let it warm up to medium heat. Take 1 pound of Ground Chuck and brown it in the pan. Break up the meat into bite-sized chunks while cooking, then set aside. In a large sized pot, add 1 Tablespoon of Olive Oil and heat up the pot on medium heat. Roughly chop the bell pepper and onion. Lightly sautée the chopped onions until slightly tender, then add the chopped bell pepper. Sautée the Bell Peppers and Onions until tender, stirring often to prevent burning. Drain the canned goods of their canning liquids and pour them into the pot (Diced Tomatoes, Red Kidney Beans, Black Beans). Add the cooked Ground Chuck into the pot and stir the contents together. Add the can of Tomato Sauce, ½ Cup of Beef Broth, and seasonings listed above (Cumin, Chili Powder, Onion Powder, Garlic Powder, Salt, Pepper). Stir to make sure seasonings are distributed evenly. Bring the Chili to a boil then reduce the heat and cover the pot with a lid, letting it simmer for 30 minutes.
Chicken and Dumplings
Daddy
Context
My Dad’s side of the family is from South Carolina’s Lowcountry, and my Dad was raised in St. Stephen. When my sister and I were growing up he told us about his Grandmother who spoke and taught him Gullah. I started this project knowing that I wanted to do a deep dive into this culture that has such a deep and rich history. Although I’m not in contact with my Dad, I was able to learn so much through research at NYU Bobst, online archives run by cultural Gullah ambassadors like Corey Alston, and Charleston Public Library’s Gullah Geechee Dial-A-Story Hotline. Through this, I was able to link memories I had of his mannerisms, facets of his identity, and the animated way he would tell us stories and stack that up with archives of this rich history. While I struggled to find my own way to claim Gullah heritage in my own way, it’s taught me to be inquisitive through the vulnerability of it all. 
The biggest thing I remember is that my dad would always cook too much food growing up. In my reading of We Got Our Way of Cooking Things by Josephine Bekou-Betts, I found that in Gullah culture it was customary to cook more food than needed in case a neighbor would like a plate. 
Brunswick Stew
This recipe comes from The Historical Cookbook of the American Negro by the National Council of Negro Women, Inc. 


4 Young Hens (3lbs dressed and cut up)
3 quarts water
8 medium-sized Onions
12 medium-sized Potatoes*
4 20z cans of Lima Beans*
4 20oz cans Whole Kernel Corn*
4 20oz cans Whole Tomatoes*
4 20oz cans Okra*
3 tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce
1 cup Butter
¼ Cup of Salt 
¼ Cup of Pepper


Cook chicken in 3 quarts water and cut from bones. Cook onions and potatoes until partially tender. Add canned vegetables and cook until thoroughly heated and potatoes are done. Add Worcestershire and melted butter, correct seasoning and serve very hot. (To celebrate the founding of Bethune Beach) 


* Dressed means a defeathered and eviscerated hen with the feet and head cut off and cut up refers to butchering the hen into parts (wings, breasts, thighs, and legs)                         
** Original Recipe calls for no.2 sized cans which roughly equal 20oz and is a naming convention for canned goods used in commercial kitchens.         


Salmon and Grits
Grits are a staple in Gullah Cuisine. According to a blog post from Edisto Island’s website, Gullah people were introduced to the practice of making grits from the rations of corn (that their plantation owner’s would give them) by Native Americans. Since the lowcountry is a coastal area, they had plenty of seafood readily available to pair with the grits. My family’s favorite variation uses Salmon.


15oz Canned Salmon
¼ Cup of Grits (I use the ‘Quick 5-minute’ container)
½ Cup of Water
½ Cup of Milk
½ White Onion
1 Tablespoon of Olive Oil
2 Tablespoons of Unsalted Butter
1 Teaspoon of Salt
1 Teaspoon of Pepper
½ Teaspoon Onion Powder
½ Teaspoon Garlic Powder


Instructions:


Sauteed Salmon
1. Pour 1 Tbsp of Olive Oil and 1 Tbsp of Butter into a saucepan and let it warm up on medium heat
2. While the pan is heating, chop ½ of a white onion however you’d like and add to the saucepan
3. Sauté the onions until slightly translucent and tender
4. Add 15oz of Canned Salmon (& the canning liquid too) into the saucepan 
5. Season with salt, pepper, onion powder, and garlic powder
6. Cover with a lid and stir occasionally to make sure everything is cooking evenly
7. Reduce the heat to a low temperature until time to serve


Grits (Boiled)
1. Combine ½ Cup of Water and ½ Cup of Milk in a medium-sized pot. Bring the mixture to a boil.
2. Once the mixture is boiling, add ¼ Cup of Grits to the mixture. Once added, reduce the heat to a low to medium temperature and stir frequently.
3. Cook grits for 5-7 minutes or until thickened then remove from heat.
4. Season with salt and pepper


Once the Sautéed Salmon and Grits have been prepared, spoon the desired amount of grits into a bowl. Add 1 Tablespoon of Butter on top of the grits (season more with salt and pepper to taste). Spoon Sautéed Salmon on top of the Grits and enjoy!